Let's talk a second about pseudo elements.
I'm not gonna dwell too much on these,
I just want you to see them.
So let's say I had this chapter book kind
of thing, I don't know if you've read
a book and there's a little like flare
at the end of every chapter, right?
There's some little signatory
like a little picture, right?
Frequently it looks like this, this is
called a fleuron., which I had to look up
for this class cuz I actually did
not know what they were called.
It took me a while Googling
weird things to figure it out.
Picture, icon,
you sometimes see at end of chapter book,
yeah, anyway I found it,
it's called a fleuron.
So notice I look at my CSS here,
I have a div, that's a class chapter.
And I have nothing underneath them.
But I wanna make this little fleurons
thing show up at the end of every chapter
here, right?
What you can do is you can use
what's called a pseudo element.
So notice that I have two colons here,
that's how you know it's a pseudo element.
I can then select this hidden elements
that exists after every single element.
First you tell it the content.
So this can be, Literally anything, right?
So you can put anything in there, right?
And then I can style it however I want.
I can make it color red, right?
You can style it however you want.
Put this back in here.
That's what you would use
a pseudo element for.
So, there's before and after,
those are the two that come
most of mine of what I use.
A good example is like this
result thing that I have right
here that shows the top of this border.
This is actually a pseudo
element that I put result and
so that people can know that this is
the result of the HTML up here, right?
So that's when you would use
something like a pseudo element.
Something that you want to stylistically
display to know what it actually is.
Does that make some sense?
You can get by,
by never using pseudo elements.
But I wanted to show you cuz they're out
there and sometimes people will use them.
Technically one colon would be valid here.
Notice that this still works,.
That's because the old way of pseudo
classes and pseudo elements used to not
be different, they used to be,
I think they were both pseudo classes.
But they eventually ended up changing
them so that they're now different,
there's pseudo elements and
pseudo classes.
They're different.
And that's why we prefer
now to use two colons so
that we know everything with one colon
is pseudo elements, sorry, everything
with one colon as pseudo classes and
everything with two is pseudo elements.
You'll notice one thing with the Web Dev
is that they never break things.
They always want old websites to work.
Like famously the Space Jam
website worked for 20 years or
something like that longer,
longer than 20 years, in modern browsers.
And that's because they
try not to break anything.
Okay, Yeah, now, one fun
fact is you can totally use CSS to style
books and newspapers and things like that.
I know a lot of books these
days are styled with CSS,
that's called print layouts.
Okay, that's it for
pseudo classes and pseudo elements.
Any questions about that?
Pseudo classes, we use all the time,
like hover states,
and focus dates, and
nth child, and first child.
Yeah, one thing I didn't show
you here is we did first child.
You can also do nth child.
So now the second one, right?
nth is just like the numberth,
right, nth child.
You can also give it a formula, right?
So like if I said,
let's get a fourth one here.
If I say 2n,
now it's every other one, right?
So the n is giving it
like a equation to use.
You could do 2n-1, and
now it's the odd ones, right?
You can get really wild, like 1- 2n.
Now you gotta remember, maybe it's -n + 1.
There we go.
So it's trying to do so like,
Do you want it to do all
of the ones that are from two and
below that's how you would do it this way.
So you can give it all sorts of fun
stuff if you need to do crazy selectors.
You should never have to really know that,
but It's there and
available if you need to.
Yeah, this kind of stuff is useful.
Pseudo elements, I very rarely use them.